This one is one of my favorite
topic in Python because a lot of
people write Python code but
just do guesswork when they have
to bring in the code from other
files in their, actual working
file.
This is a really fun and
interesting topic, but rest
assured that after watching this
particular video, it might be a
little bit longer one, but you
will never face any problem in
importing any file from anywhere
into the Python.
I have seen this struggle with
the students who actually write
code in Django or Fast API.
They just keep on wondering why this
is happening, how this is happening.
You will get answer of all of this.
The video could be slightly longer
than the usual one, but I want
to cover this all in one go.
So let me take you onto
the screen and we're going
to just work with this.
So it's a really simple
and fun thing to do.
Hope you remember the name.
What was the name?
This is Dunder.
I hope you do that.
All right, so let's go ahead
and talk about the imports.
And especially, I'll call this one
as importing objects or importing
functions would also not be bad.
But everything is an object
in the world of Python, so
calling functions also as an object
is also a true statement.
Very, very weird.
But this is also a true
statement here.
All right, so let's talk
about why we need an import here.
Imagine you have a perfect
masala chai recipe.
You have saved it in a notebook.
And, what's that notebook?
That notebook is, masala chai py.
All right, we'll first grab
the theory and then definitely 100%
will code out the things as well.
So this is one of your
file masalachai py.
Now, rather than rewriting the same
instruction every time you brew
a chai in a new shop, let's just say
you have opened up a new branch.
So let's just call this
one as, new branch py.
Of course.
So we opened up this new branch.
So would you rather go ahead and get
this masala chai every single
time, write a fresh function?
No, we want to import this
into the masala chai.
So how do we do this?
How we bring the code from masala
chai py into the new branch?
There are a couple
of ways how we do it.
We'll surely write the Python
code first, grab the theory.
So we can just go ahead
and say import masala.
I wrote it, correct?
Yep.
Import masalachai py.
Once you write this statement
at the very top, what this statement
will allow you to do is you can just
go ahead and use something like this
Masalachai and then use a method.
Maybe this whole file.
Masalachai py has a lot of methods
but we want to use a brew method.
I can call all of this method here.
So, so this will be my code if I
go ahead and bring it up here.
Now what we are doing is you
are bringing the full recipe
notebook to the table.
You are not bringing one
method or two things, you are
bringing the whole recipe.
It's just like flipping
the pages and finding
the right methods for this.
There could be another
way of doing this.
So this is one way.
There is no wrong or no right.
This is one way of doing the things.
Another way is saying that I don't
want the whole book to come in.
I, I want certain methods to come up.
So I can just go ahead and say
from Masalachai Py I want
to import not everything but let's
just say the brew method.
So this is what I want to bring
in, only the brew method.
Now this gives me a really
interesting way to use this.
Now my file has the functionality
of brewing.
I can directly go ahead
and use the brew.
The only difference between this
and this here you have
to simply say okay from this book
use this particular method.
Some people prefer this,
some people prefer this.
And of course there are use
case scenarios of this.
So this is also a right way and this
is also an equally right way.
But you should know what
we are bringing in.
There is also another way.
Yeah, there is also interesting way.
Let's just say you don't want
to call it as brew.
Maybe your file still has a method
which is doing some brewing.
You want to change the name of it.
So I can go ahead and simply say
from Masala chai, import brew
but call it as start brewing.
Yeah, this simple as
brewing the moment you get
it as start brewing.
As start brewing.
Now I can simply go ahead and call
this one as start brewing.
So again we have literally
three ways of how we can import
the same thing from here.
So in the new branch
you have three ways.
Now we can actually import the whole
thing and call dot ways
and can get the methods out of it.
We can actually have the named
import that I only want brew
but if there are more methods
you can just comma separate them
and have more values of it.
For example the brew is
there or there is a prepare.
You get the idea.
So you can have as many as you wish.
Now these are the three ways.
I hope you got an idea.
Of how this can be done.
This was a very fictitious scenario.
But I also want to talk
on one more thing.
Sometimes you are importing things
which are not from the other files
but rather Python is giving you.
So there are other ways.
For example, you'll sometimes say
from datetime, which is a inbuilt
methods and inbuilt functionality
in the Python and you want
to say import, date, time.
So you are bringing from the datetime
file the datetime functionality.
The name happened to be same,
but this is very common.
It happens.
It's a standard library
that we are bringing in.
Sometimes we go ahead
and say from requests.
This is also a really popular library
for making web requests.
So you simply go ahead and do that.
And sometimes you will say that hey,
I want to have a localized import.
By the way, this is called
as localized import.
So I would say something like
from Chai.
This is a fictitious one.
So Chai Shop, let's just
say.utils I'll show you.
What does it mean?
I want to go ahead and say import
discount and I want to import,
calculate, tax and all these things.
And this might be
a little bit confusing.
Okay, from the Chai Shop
utils, what do you mean by utils?
We haven't seen anything
of this syntax.
We are actually importing from PY Py
to understand this particular
syntax, which you'll see
quite a lot, especially in
the frameworks, we have to actually
design something like this.
So what we're going to do is
let's prepare a structure first.
First I'll walk you through what
structure we are creating,
then we'll create it actually.
So let's just say we have a folder
which says chibe business.
Inside the chai business we
will have a recipe recipes
which will be a folder itself.
I'll denote the folder by having
a trailing slash at the end.
I think that's easier one.
So inside the recipe we are going
to further go ahead and have
let's just say flavor py
and just like we have a recipe we
will have another folder.
We will have utils Just like we saw
this here we will have the utils
again I'll denote trailing slash as
the folder name and then further
inside this we will have discount or
discounts py and at the very outside
of this we will have a main file
just here.
So main py so this is
what we want to build.
Now I'll show you some very
interesting part about it like inits
and why you should use it.
Why you shouldn't use it
in all of this.
First, let's create this
structure whole thing.
So I'll just close this and instead
of calling this one as just
the chai business, we'll call it as,
06 chai chai business.
It's easier for us.
So 06 underscore.
And let's call this
one as Chai business.
And the first thing that we saw
in here, that I want to create
a new file which is main py.
What we'll write into that,
that comes up a little later.
Not worried much on that.
Let's have a two folder first.
First one being recipes.
Recipe or recipes.
Totally up to you.
And we'll have another folder
which is going to call as utils.
We know in the utils
we have discounts.
Discounts py.
And in the recipe we have flavors.
Flavors Py.
Hope I wrote that correct.
I'm a big type of guy.
So in this flavor py, what we're
doing is let's define some
utilities or some functions for it.
One is this chai.
So we have a lot of Chai
flavors going on in this one.
Feel free to add as many
as you, want to have.
This doesn't print out anything.
Most of the function will return.
Do you want to print it?
That should be your choice.
And chai, is ready.
Ready.
And we'll have another one
which is going to be ginger
Gingerchi, just like that.
And we can have many
hundreds of them.
No problem here.
And we'll say ginger T.
No, ginger chai is ready.
You get the idea what this
flavor is actually doing.
All right, now let's
go ahead and work on.
We'll work on the discounts
a little bit later.
First, let's see how we can actually
bring this into the main py.
So, so notice here in this
I will just go ahead and say import
from the recipes.
I'll just go ahead
and say dot flavor.
That is all I have to do.
So if some files are inside a folder,
all you have to do is name
that folder, then say dot flavors.
No need to add the py
and all of that.
Usually you don't need it,
especially in the Python ecosystem.
That is it.
Now I can just go ahead
and say I want to print
whatever the thing says.
This is like bringing a brook.
So I'll just say, hey,
recipes, flavors dot.
And notice here I have access
to elaichi chai and ginger chai.
So whichever one I want to run, I
can just go ahead and run this.
But I Have to flip the whole book.
That's one other thing.
I can just go ahead
and use another option B.
So we'll comment this out.
You get the import,
we'll just do another import.
So another way of importing this is
from recipes dot flavor.
I can use the named import
and I can say oops, my
bad, this is not import.
This is actually from.
I want to import the method name.
So you can just press control
space and it will give
you suggestions as well.
Elijah.
And you have another one.
There we go.
Now I have the ability
to just print them directly.
So let's just say I want
to call gingerchai.
I can just go ahead
and call Ginger Chai.
This is totally on you.
That how you want to work with this.
Totally on you.
Everything is correct.
There is no right and wrong.
Whichever makes sense.
You can just go ahead
and work with that.
This is named import VS all import.
Now there is another
way of handling this.
Yeah.
So what we can do is we can actually
have a, relative imports as well.
So relative imports are helpful
where the module lives
in the same directory tree.
They're often used
in the packages as well.
So from within the recipe package
you can try something like this.
I'll show you something.
This, this is also interesting.
So notice here I can just go
ahead and say from
dot and notice here I can just go
ahead and say from recipes.
And if the recipe file is within
the same part where the main py
I can just go ahead and say
dot flavors just like this.
But it is not.
So here's the interesting part.
I can use two dots.
That means go one directory back
and it can actually go.
Right now I don't want to go one
directory back because it will
take me onto the root level.
But just wanted to show
you that it exists.
Now here I have to say
the same recipes then I have
to say dot flavors.
It's also a syntax and I can
just go ahead and say import.
Very weird syntax.
But I want to show you that this
actually exists.
Now here's the interesting thing
that usually I say avoid this.
I'll just show you.
But please don't do this.
So let's just say from I
should actually show you.
Not here, actually here because
this is where we are importing.
So what you have to never do
or should actually avoid as
much as possible is from
Masalachai import asterisk.
This means I'm importing
everything without knowing
what it's going to do.
What, what it's not going to do.
How is it going to impact the things
and all of these things?
This is something which
is usually avoided.
Now here's the interesting
part I want to show you.
Since we are talking about the
imports, one thing that you have
hundred percent seen is dunder
init dunder py now you will see,
almost everybody will say that
the presence of this init py
file turns a folder into a
Python package.
So technically if we are making
a Python package, go into
the recipe, create a new file.
This is underscore, underscore init
in it we don't write anything inside
this file, but this actually turns
folder into a Python package.
It can also contain initialization
code, but this is.
Okay, but here's the interesting
part, what people
don't tell you ever probably
those videos are a bit old.
So anytime that you see Python,
which is about 3.3 or
the Python 3.3 onwards,
you don't have to do this anymore.
But it is still commonly used.
So much so that you're going to
see this and people talk about it.
But the reality is
in the Python 3.3 this is obsolete.
So all the code that you're writing
doesn't really need it.
But if you still want
to have it, you can keep it.
There is no right or wrong in this
one, so, so just wanted to make
sure that you understand that.
Okay, this one converts my
folder into the Python modules
and technically now we can call
this one as Recipe modules just
for saying it's already a
module because it's in the
Python structure.
There's a Python files
and all of that.
Python automatically does that,
but still people love to use it.
I don't do it because I know
Python 3.3 doesn't need
this file and anyways this
file is always empty.
This is just for the Python
internal architecture.
You don't do anything with this.
So I hope this all information
was useful for you.
And now from this point
onwards, importing any
file will be your call.
It's not just the guesswork.
You know exactly where I
am going, what I'm doing.
Different types of import,
I'm aware of them.
I know how the named import works,
I know how not to do the star
work and everything beyond that.
That is it for this video.
Hope you have enjoyed it.
Do rate us and we'll catch
up in the next video.